---
layout: post
title: Week 1 | hello, world!
---

## Open-Source Technology.
It's a term that practically every technologist has heard, but upon being asked what it is, there tends to be a large margin of variance in their answers.

When I hear the term "open-source," the proper definition that comes to mind is software that is open to the public to be modified and distributed under the bounds of some given license.

However, what I feel is the possibility for innovation and freedom, by allowing the masses to contribute to the augmentation of each technology that they use on a day to day respectively.

The main draws of open-source technology in my opinion are the following:
- It allows you to function on the bleeding edge of technology (meaning more experimentation)
- You often will not have to pay for licensing as opposed to some proprietary software
- If you encounter any issues or have ideas to improve the tech, you can simply just do it (as stated above.)

However, it also has some drawbacks:
- It allows you to function on the bleeding edge of technology (meaning less documentation)
- It's support is reliant on community as opposed to proprietary software with LTS attached to their infrastructure


Regardless, I think that the pros greatly outweigh the cons in why you should start using it, but ultimately these things come with the nuance of case-by-case bases.

## Open-Source Software is Everywhere.

I alongside many personally find open source software to be my main method of creation. Not only directly through coding languages, but through the libraries on top of them as well.

Some of the following that I use/have used are:
- Python
- Kotlin
- Numpy
- Java Spring
- Cirq
- Numba JIT
- And likely numerous others...

There is a lot more to be said about software of this nature, but I am looking forward to get my hands dirty with it more rigorously over the course of my open-source class, which prompted this blog to begin with.
