---
layout: post
title: Week 12, Open Source in Business
---

### How Businesses Use Open Source

Although it took a while for it to catch on, I am glad for companies like Red Hat initially going forth and pioneering open source within the professional
industry, as I know for a fact we benefit from it greatly today. Many companies today have sectors of employees that they pay primarily to maintain open
source software because it is so crucial for business operations. Additionally, open source software can be profitable based on how companies model their
business around it (as previously seen and mentioned with Red Had,) so I am a true believer that as time goes on companies will adopt more and more open
source ideologies as the software continues to strengthen and legitimize.

### Keycloak Progress
The issue I previously opened about the Maven Wrapper being outdated got a merged pull request, so that was a success. Ben and Albert have been continuing
to work on different issues surrounding the themes, and me and Jerry have made meaningful progress on our organization based session timeout feature
implementation, with us having touched the database, changelog, and model layers of the application. Now all we need to do is create our service implementation
and then create a UI component to test our work, and we will have an MVP ready to put on a pull request to show maintainers.

### Personal Contributions
For my personal contributions, I have been starting to find myself more comfortable in addressing issues and making changes. Particularly, I have been contributing
to an open source project known as "Archipelago," which is a multi world game randomizer to make gaming with friends more interactive, social, and fun. I made a 
bonafide code fix and created a pull request for it yesterday not just regarding boilerplate or getter setter methods, but touching actual OS level concepts in 
multiprocessing, which was very cool to me. It passed a review and I am hoping for it to get merged soon.
