---
layout: post
title: Week 10, Steady Progress & Real Development
---

### The Past Few Weeks
Over the past few weeks of school, there has been a break, a faculty strike, and lots of open source project progress. All of these 
things have been showing promise so far, but today I want to discuss open source progress on Keycloak. Me and my group mates have been
making steady contributions, with issue creation, discussions, and commits. I personally have been able to open an issue regarding a bug
I found during dev environment setup on windows, have made a pull request for some documentation edits I made to address an issue, and 
started a discussion on the scope of a brand new feature that would make legacy database migration to Keycloak much easier.

I won't bore you, the reader, with the fine details, but essentially Keycloak has built in support for many password hashing algorithms for
safe storage and encryption of user data, but there is a legacy hashing algorithm that is still very common in some application architectures
that lacks built in support with Keycloak. Thus, migration to Keycloak for these applications auth handling proves to be a tedious task. By building
this feature, it would allow much simpler legacy app migration, so that is the possible feature I discussed in depth and am waiting to get eyes on.

In terms of issues too, our group is tackling larger code issues now. Ben and Albert are working on translation support for custom UI themes, while me
and Jerry are working on making configuration of client session kill time more granular (essentially, we want the administrator to have greater control
over which groups of users have longer or shorter session login persistence times.)

In terms of personal contributions, I have been getting some things merged and also have a couple more ideas for projects to contribute to, so I am quite excited
that I am really getting into the swing of things overall.


